The [[FAQ]] may be helpful for general questions. This is intended to help people familiar with using other Haskell build tools- like cabal-install, hsenv, etc- with getting started with stack. The goal of stack is to be easy to use, so hopefully there won't be any gotchas. In our experience so far, most of the confusion comes from things you don't need to do in stack. For example:

* There's no need for explicit sandboxing, all builds in stack are isolated automatically
* The `install` command doesn't exist. Dependencies are built for you automatically, and your packages are always registered into a local package database

## From cabal-install to stack

If you already have a working cabal build, it is a good idea to perform a `cabal freeze` if you have not already. If you need some packages outside of the snapshot you are using (to be placed in the extra-deps field), the cabal.config file generated by the freeze can be a good place to look for exact versions.

## Shared databases, not sandboxes

Since sandboxing is such a common feature in the rest of the Haskell build tool
world (hsenv, cabal, cabal-dev), it may be surprising to see so little mention
of it in this document. That's because the goal of sandboxing- isolating
builds- is the default in stack. There are two different aspects of a build
that warrant some kind of isolation:

* The package database, containing information on the compiled libraries
* The bin directory, containing generated executables

Whenever you build with stack, there are three of each at play:

* GHC's `bin` directory and global package database
* The snapshot's (e.g., lts-2.9)
* Your project

These are layered so that they shadow the previous ones. If you use extra-deps
to install a new version of `text` in your project, for example, that will
override whatever is installed in your snapshot. If you install a newer version
of the xhtml library via your snapshot, it will shadow the xhtml that ships
with GHC.

The one important difference to note versus how GHC typically behaves is that
we don't make use of the "user package database" at all. This is to properly
enforce isolation. If you wish to use tools like `ghc` or `runhaskell`, you
should do so via `stack ghc` or `stack exec`.

The [[Architecture]] page goes into much more detail on this.