# Code Coverage

Code coverage is enabled by passing the `--coverage` flag to `stack build`.

## Usage

`stack test --coverage` is quite streamlined for the following use-case:

1. You have test-suites which exercise your local packages.

2. These test-suites link against your library, rather than building the library
   directly. Coverage information is only given for libraries, ignoring the
   modules which get compiled directly into your executable. A common case where
   this doesn't happen is when your test-suite and library both have something
   like `hs-source-dirs: src/`. In this case, when building your test-suite you
   may also be compiling your library, instead of just linking against it.

When your project has these properties, you will get the following:

1) Textual coverage reports in the build output.

2) A unified textual and HTML report, considering the coverage on all local
  libraries, based on all of the tests that were run.

3) An index of all generated HTML reports, at `$(stack path
   --local-hpc-root)/index.html`.

## "stack hpc report" command

The `stack hpc report` command generates a report for a selection of targets and
`.tix` files.  For example, if we have 3 different packages with test-suites,
packages `A`, `B`, and `C`, the default unified report will have coverage from
all 3.  If we want a unified report with just two, we can instead run:

```
$ stack hpc report A B
```

This will output a textual report for the combined coverage from `A` and `B`'s
test-suites, along with a path to the HTML for the report.  To further
streamline this process, you can pass the `--open` option, to open the report in
your browser.

This command also supports taking extra `.tix` files.  If you've also built an
executable, against exactly the same library versions of `A`, `B`, and `C`, then
you could do the following:

```
$ stack exec -- an-exe
$ stack hpc report A B C an-exe.tix
```

This report will consider all test results as well as the newly generated
`an-exe.tix` file.  Since this is a common use-case, there is a convenient flag
to use all stored results - `stack hpc report --all an-exe.tix`.

## "extra-tix-files" directory

During the execution of the build, you can place additional tix files in
`$(stack path --local-hpc-root)/extra-tix-files/` in order for them to be
included in the unified report. A couple caveats:

* These tix files must be generated by executables that are built against the
exact same library versions. Also note that, on subsequent builds with coverage,
the `$(stack path --local-hpc-root)` directory will be recursively deleted. It
just stores the most recent coverage data.

* These tix files will not be considered by `stack hpc report` unless listed
explicitly by file name.

## Implementation details

Most users can get away with just understanding the above documentation.
However, advanced users may want to understand exactly how `--coverage` works:

1. The GHC option `-fhpc` gets passed to all local packages.  This tells GHC to
   output executables that track coverage information and output them to `.tix`
   files. `the-exe-name.tix` files will get written to the working directory of
   the executable.

   When switching on this flag, it will usually cause all local packages to be
   rebuilt (see [#1940](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/stack/issues/1940).

2. Before the build runs with `--coverage`, the contents of `stack path
   --local-hpc-root` gets deleted. This prevents old reports from getting mixed
   with new reports. If you want to preserve report information from multiple
   runs, copy the contents of this path to a new folder.

3. Before a test run, if a `test-name.tix` file exists in the package directory,
   it will be deleted.

4. After a test run, it will expect a `test-name.tix` file to exist. This file
   will then get loaded, modified, and outputted to `$(stack path
   --local-hpc-root)/pkg-name/test-name/test-name.tix)`.

   The `.tix` file gets modified to remove coverage file that isn't associated
   with a library. So, this means that you won't get coverage information for
   the modules compiled in the `executable` or `test-suite` stanza of your cabal
   file. This makes it possible to directly union multiple `*.tix` files from
   different executables (assuming they are using the exact same versions of the
   local packages).

   If there is enough popular demand, it may be possible in the future to give
   coverage information for modules that are compiled directly into the
   executable. See
   [#1359](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/stack/issues/1359).

5. Once we have a `.tix` file for a test, we also generate a textual and HTML
   report for it. The textual report is sent to the terminal. The index of the
   test-specific HTML report is available at `$(stack path
   --local-hpc-root)/pkg-name/test-name/index.html`

6. After the build completes, if there are multiple output `*.tix` files, they
   get combined into a unified report. The index of this report will be
   available at `$(stack path --local-hpc-root)/combined/all/index.html`

7. Finally, an index of the resulting coverage reports is generated. It links to
   the individual coverage reports (one for each test-suite), as well as the
   unified report. This index is available at `$(stack path
   --local-hpc-root)/index.html`
